# Pink Floyd - The Wall
## Claudio Satriano
### From [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Wall](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Wall)

The Wall is the eleventh studio album by English rock band Pink Floyd, released
in 1979 through Harvest and Columbia Records. Conceived during the In The Flesh
tour, recording spanned nearly a year, from December 1978 to November 1979, and
took place in France, England, New York, and Los Angeles. It was produced by Bob
Erzin, who helped to refine the concept and bridge tensions during recording.
Some of the outtakes from the recording sessions were used on the band's next
album, The Final Cut (1983).

![cover](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/1/13/PinkFloydWallCoverOriginalNoText.jpg)

A rock opera and a concept record, its story explores Pink, a jaded rockstar
that bassist Roger Waters modeled after himself and band founder Syd Barrett.
Pink's life begins with the loss of his father during the Second World War and
continues with abuse from his schoolteachers, an overprotective mother, and the
breakdown of his marriage; all contribute to his eventual self-imposed isolation
from society, symbolised by a wall. The band, who were then struggling with
personal and financial difficulties, supported the idea. The Wall is the last
album to feature Pink Floyd as a quartet; keyboardist Richard Wright was fired
by Waters during production, but stayed on as a salaried musician. The record
was promoted with three singles: "Another Brick in the Wall, Part 2", "Run Like
Hell", and "Comfortably Numb", the first of which became the band's only number
one single in the US. From 1980 to 1981, the group embarked on The Wall Tour,
which was notable for its elaborate theatrical effects. The concept was later
adapted into a feature film of the same name, directed by Alan Parker and
released in 1982.

The Wall received mixed reviews from critics upon its release, many of whom
found its contents to be overblown and pretentious. Retrospectively, it is
considered one of the greatest albums of all time, and is one of the most
well-known concept albums. The record was a commercial success, reaching number
one in the US (where it stayed for 15 weeks), and number three in the UK. As of
2018, the album has sold over 24 million copies, the second best-selling in the
band's catalog, as well as one of the best-selling of all time.

> I think things like 'Comfortably Numb' were the last embers of mine and
> Roger's ability to work collaboratively together. David Gilmour
